---
layout: page
title: Rules
subtitle: The rules for the competition
---

### Start of play

**1.** Before starting the game, the opponents toss a coin with the
winner choosing: (a) to serve first/to receive first, or (b) the side

**2.** In subsequent games, the winning side serves first.

Scoring System

**1.** A match consists of the best of 3 games of 21 points (games cap
at 30 points). Each game starts at 0-0. If the match goes to the third
game, that third game will be played to 15.

**2.** Every time there is a serve --there is a point scored.

-   a\. A rally is won when a shuttle is hit over the net and onto the
    floor of the opponent\'s court.

-   b\. A rally is lost if the shuttle is hit into the net, or over the
    net but outside the opponent\'s court. A rally is also lost if
    the shuttle touches the player\'s clothing or body, or if it is hit
    before it crosses over the net.

**3.** The side winning a rally adds a point to its score.

**4.** At 20 all, the side which gains a 2 point lead first, wins that
game.

**5.** At 29 all, the side scoring the 30th point, wins that game.

**6.** The side winning a game serves first in the next game

Intervals and Changed of Ends

**1.** A 2-minute interval between each game is allowed.

**2. **Teams switch sides at the end of each game.

**3.** In the third game, teams switch sides when the leading score
reaches 8 points.

### Serving

**1.** The first serve of the game is always made from the right side of
the court to the opposite diagonal side. Only the player standing in the
proper service court may return the serve.

**2.** The server must obey laws designed to force underhand delivery of
the serve, and the receiver must stand still until the service is
struck.

**3.** Following the serve, players may move anywhere on their side of
the net.

**4.** A player continues to serve (alternating service courts) as long
as a player scores points.

**5.** The service passes consecutively to the players.

**6.** When the score is even, the server serves from the right service
court. When it is odd, the server serves from the left court.

**7.** If the serving side wins a rally, the serving side scores a point
and the same server serves again from the alternate service court.

**8.** If the receiving side wins a rally, the receiving side scores a
point. The receiving side becomes the new serving side.

**9.** The players do not change their respective service courts until
they win a point while their side is serving.

**10.** If the server completely misses the shuttle on the serve the
server may re-serve.

**11.** A serve may not be delivered until the receiver is ready. If the
receiver attempts to return the serve, the receiver is to have been
considered ready.

**12.** During the serve, it is a fault if:

-   \(a\) The shuttle is contacted above the server's waist or the
    racket head is above any part of the hand.

-   \(b\) The shuttle does not fall into the diagonally opposite service
    court.

-   \(c\) Some part of both feet of the server and receiver are not in
    contact with the appropriate court until the shuttle is contacted by
    the server. Touching a line with the foot is considered out of the
    court. \*If players commit an error in the service court, the error
    is corrected when the mistake is discovered.

### General Play

**1**. A shuttle falling on the line is good. Use outside lines all the
way around, except for serves where you use the shorter back lines.

**2.** A shuttle which touches and passes over the net is in play
(including the serve)

**3.** Faults Include:

-   \(a\) The shuttle fails to pass over the net or lands outside the
    boundary line.

-   \(b\) The shuttle contacts the walls, ceiling, player or player's
    clothes.

-   \(c\) The shuttle passes through or under the net.

-   \(d\) The player touches the net.

-   \(e\) The player reaches across the net to contact the shuttle
    (following through across the net is allowed).

-   \(f\) The shuttle is hit more than once or comes to rest or is
    momentarily caught on the racquet and thrown.

-   \(g\) The player obstructs an opponent or invades the opponent's
    court.

-   \(h\) A player is hit by the shuttle whether the player is standing
    inside or outside the court boundaries.

-   \(i\) It is illegal for a player to hold up his/her racquet to block
    a return at the net. However, he/she may hold it up to protect
    his/her face or if he/she is returning it from within the
    appropriate receiving court.

**4.** Any accidental hindrance is considered a "let"and there will be a
re-serve. For example, a player or shuttle from another game entering
the court.

They can miss the serve 3 times before it gets changed to the other team
